and welcome back to a fresh episode of
sam's
business growth show excited to be
joined by brian
massey today take a computer programmer
a sales person
a marketer an entrepreneur and cram them
into a lab coat
and you've got conversion scientists
brian mati has been optimizing websites
since before it was cool
he's seen a lot of tests since 2007 when
he founded conversion scientists
the company stood web designers head
using behavioral science both before and
after launch to guarantee
more leads and more sales brian a very
warm welcome sir
how are you doing thank you thank you
for that lovely introduction
cramming all those products i'm gonna
have to steal that
no worries man brian looking forward to
this today um i think this is going to
be a really
useful master class in how our
audience of business owners and sales
reps can utilize basically get best bang
for their buck
out of their websites to ensure them
generate as many juicy leads and new
sales opportunities as possible
um so before we get into what it really
takes to turn our websites into lead
generation machines brian
please give us a quick snapshot and
background on yourself
so for anyone that does not know brian
massey what you're about
and and what caused you to start your
company yeah well so
i am a programmer by training um
a geek all the way through high school
but when i graduated from college with a
bachelor in science and computer science
um i saw a salesman an ibm salesman i
thought hmm
maybe i should be doing that rather than
sitting in a cubicle coding all
day so went into sales came back got
into marketing
and i was trying to figure out you know
in the
early 2000s how i could figure out which
of my landing pages was working i was
sending emails
traffic was coming but i didn't know
what was working what wasn't so i
wrote my own analytics package google
came along and gave theirs away for free
and it was fantastic so
that began the uh my journey of saying
wow there are all these tools coming on
the market
that really allow me to manage my
business um and i get so excited about
what became conversion optimization we
didn't even have a name for it back then
um that i started my own agency in 2007
so um at that point i was spending a lot
of time
teaching the market that they needed
conversion although no one puts up a
website that they're not trying to get
more people
to engage with their business and um
since then we've grown i mean we still
are a small agency
i like to say we're the perfect size um
and we spend our time now um
doing this for other businesses going in
understanding
how their visitors are behaving how we
can improve the website and
collecting the data that proves we're
either right or wrong with all of our
brilliant ideas
good on you man a good little story
there so brian let's
jump into it without further ado um we
want to talk about how
our listeners how our watchers can turn
their website from just being a mere
drop in the ocean
a simple brochure site online which i'll
be honest when we first when i first um
launched my website many many years ago
just like yourself i didn't really know
what conversion rate optimization was
i didn't realize that we had to actually
convince visitors that they needed to
to build confidence to build trust in
our services on our websites before they
actually then
reached out to us by giving us a call or
filling out a lead form or fill out
inquiry form or if we're on e-commerce
obviously making a purchase
that there was all these different
elements and bits and pieces of the
puzzle
that actually caused visitors to then
convert to becoming a lead or becoming
customer so
it'd be good as a starter to talk a bit
about what it takes from just being a
simple
information or brochure site to actually
building a website that's an effective
converter of um
leads or sales what would you say are
some of the core differences
um ryan yeah so the brochure
idea came across you know back in the
day when it was all print
um i would come across a brochure
somewhere and it would have a
fantastic idea of some place i wanted to
go something i wanted to buy
and i would read it and say well yes i
do want this and i would buy that
um early on the web we were putting up
similar things we would simply
explain what our product or service was
and let the visitor decide if they
wanted it or not
unfortunately on the web we don't look
at just one brochure if we see a
brochure we see a website
we go out and we search for other
alternative and
so it's not enough to simply explain
what we do and let the visitor decide
um and you're probably investing
in search optimization maybe buying ads
you're paying to bring people to your
brochure you don't want them to leave
and go off and check out your
competition or your alternatives
and a brochure site really doesn't do a
good job of that
so what we want to do is we want to
do a couple of things number one if
we're selling something that can be
transacted online
it's the internet and people know how to
buy things online so we want to make
sure that we're doing a good job
of presenting our value proposition
price and
getting people through the purchase
process but for a lot of businesses
really what we're going to do is we want
to build an asset that allows us to stay
in touch
with the people that are coming to our
site um the most common way of doing
that is to build a list
so when people come to our site we want
to give them a reason
to give us their name and email address
so that we can continue the conversation
continue to remind them of the value of
what we offer
and give them opportunities to come back
and call us
buy something from us schedule something
with us
whatever that next step is in that
business relationship
and the business that does that best
that builds that list and communicates
well with the visitors
is going to be the the one that wins
in the long run got it okay brian are we
talking about building
lead magnets here so are we talking
about putting together offers
um i'll be talking about things like
ebooks or white papers to collect email
addresses
so some kind of hook or are we talking
about something a little bit different
no that's usually one of the first
things that we'll test is um
coming up with some sort of content um
that is relevant so
the the typical funnel looks like this
you
put up a website you put a lot of copy
on the website
google sees it and puts you in a bucket
and starts bringing people who are
looking for whatever you offer
um so to do that you're
already generating content people are
coming to blog post
articles typically those are the the
primary landing pages when um
google are being or sending that traffic
to you so you want to come up with
um what you call the lead magnet a piece
of content
that expands on that um something simple
if you're
um if you're selling apparel let's say
you're an e-commerce site you're selling
apparel
um you might offer a buyer's guide so
for those people that aren't ready to
buy right now that you want to continue
the conversation
a buyer's guide for whatever you're
selling might be helpful
um if you are a law firm you could say
that
the you can offer a piece of contents
the five
mistakes people make when securing a
legal representation and these will be
things that
that for people who are trying to solve
a problem that you solve
will be interesting to them and they'd
be willing to give you a name and email
address
that builds your list and then you um
provide a series of emails that add
value you can even offer additional
content
the goal is to bring them back to the
site and get them to call you
get them to fill out a consult a form
for free consultation
or to be contacted so that's the pretty
typical funnel
um for organic traffic
yeah and that that makes sense i mean
like you say a large percentage of
people that are going to come on
our website as a business i say i'm
always going to be ready to take the
action
and give you a call or fill out a form
if we're in in the business of providing
services or when
the b2c or e-commerce business make a
purchase straight away so that that
guide idea is a really nice
idea thinking about i guess it's about
thinking about a piece of content that's
going to be useful for your ideal
customer right brian
so they're actually going to think this
is going to be helpful to me and then
they sign up
and then is it just a case of sending
emails over a set number of days just
with really helpful useful content and
then
on the last few few days then you do an
ask is it something like that
yeah and you know the mistake that most
business owners make is not sending
enough email
so um what you have to realize is that
maybe every third or fourth or fifth
email is actually going to get read
so if you're sending one a week you
might be
you might be contacting that that person
once a month
and if they're looking to make a
decision within a week or two
you're outside the window so one of the
mistakes we make is not sending
frequently enough whenever somebody
signs up for
a lead magnet a piece of content that
helps them become a better buyer of your
service or your product
um it you know send five or
seven emails every day after that
and you can literally explain to them
what was in the lead magnet in case they
didn't read it
they did read it you're reiterating the
value and
interspersing that with um offers um
you know free consultation a discount on
your first month
uh whatever um sort of promotional
content will bring them back to the site
and
inch them closer to um a purchasing
decision
so i think really focusing on that
um that follow-up email and not being
afraid to be
uh frequent with them is um
it's one of the the key things we see
the key mistakes we see people making
got it nice one um and let's talk about
perhaps let's let's pretend we're
working with a service
based business brian and their main
objective of the website is to
get people to perhaps request a demo
perhaps there are software as a service
company
so they really want people to hit that
button and request a demo of one of
their sales reps
um lead magnets to one side let's say is
a
it is a prospect that's on the website
that actually does want to do business
with them what are some of the
perhaps best practices we can get to
actually drive them to to make that demo
request and some of the worst practices
that we can should make sure that we
avoid
specificity in your calls to action so
um when we've got more of a brochure
site
we've generally put
generating content on there so we'll say
subscribe to our newsletter
well how exciting really is another
newsletter in your inbox
so if you can give them some examples of
the kind of content that they have
maybe talk about how many other
subscribers you have
they begin to say oh this is really
valuable um
be more specific around those calls to
action the
really important call to action on your
site is going to be fill out a contact
form contact me
and this is often relegated to a contact
us page
with a generic form instead i would say
put up a special page that is
um start get get a free demo and get all
your answers your questions answered
um and put in that context so it's not
just a generic contact us because that's
telling me
i'm gonna get a call from a salesperson
and the only thing worse than another
newsletter in your inbox is a call from
a sales person
yeah you're going to have a consultation
and get questions
answered and on these pages you want to
talk about the consultation it's going
to be 30 minutes
at the end of 30 minutes we'll decide
you know help you decide what the best
course of action is if we're a good fit
we'll give you a quote
you'll be talking to a knowledgeable
person who can answer your questions not
a salesperson if those things are true
so you want to sell the call as
something that's going to help them in
their business
so you see the distinction on why a
special page
for a demo or a consultation is better
than a generic
contact us page yeah yeah that makes a
heck of a lot of sense and i really like
the the point about being specific
so a whole bunch of websites would would
like to say just have the general
contact form
like your name your email your phone
number your message and as
a as a visit to the site you don't
really know what's going to happen
whether
how quickly it's going to take them to
get in touch what they're actually going
to contact you about what you're getting
in touch about whether you're speaking
to sales customer service and all this
and that
so if you're really specific um i guess
it helps the end user understand exactly
what they're going to get out of the
experience and gives them a bit more
reassurance and confidence in your
services and what they're going to get
yeah and that's what we're trying to do
we want them to feel comfortable
and confident beginning a relationship
beginning a conversation with our
business
just as if we were sitting in a store
window sure
sure thing that makes perfect sense
brian um so moving the conversation
forward
we um you talked about you touched on it
briefly just now
um with the mention of seo so search
engine optimization
to get our websites organically placed
on google and also paid ads
whether that's google ads bing ads
facebook ads whatever ad platform we
choose to invest in
um to generate those all important leads
or sales inquiries opportunities
um how should we decide whether we
should invest in
more ads to generate more traffic to our
site or
to to looking to improve our conversion
rates or do we do both
yeah so um if you're doing a good job
with
japan in terms of building your list and
getting them to come back through email
um
then yes uh you should invest in the
traffic
the flip side is you don't really know
if you don't
have enough traffic coming so if you're
getting
a hundred visitors a month or even a
thousand visitors a month and
one percent of them are converting it's
a you don't really know how well you're
doing is
is 10 is that a good conversion rate is
20 a good conversion rate
so you may want to start off
particularly we recommend
using some ads so if you're developing
out these landing pages and you want to
see how they work
go ahead and invest in some ads to go to
those pages
but instead of just looking at the
number of clicks your ads are generating
look at the number of people who are
completing the form
the number of conversions that you're
getting from those ads
if you don't think it's high enough then
you can turn that off and make
adjustments
but if you are seeing a high conversion
rate then what you want to do is start
investing in that organic traffic and
actually organic traffic takes a while
to grow so
um we would always recommend you start
there
so you're essentially investing in ads
dependent on how good you are
at creating these special pages that get
the visitors to convert either
join your list or sign up for that demo
that free consultation whatever that
next step is
even um phone calls mobile is growing
crazy and so
your audience may be interested in
calling
yeah makes sense okay so what we're
saying is perhaps um
when it comes to paid ads start with
some kind of small test
to to see how well your landing pages
that you're looking at
or your website depending on where
you're directing the traffic is actually
not just generating the clicks but it's
actually converting those all important
leads
and then based on the conversion rate
that you get
and then looking kind of whether you
should ramp up that ad spend up
or whether you need to make tweaks to
your landing page or to your website
to help improve that and perhaps pause
the campaign for a while whilst you work
on different changes
or um as i'm sure you'd recommend brian
looking at maybe a b split testing which
is sometimes what we do for our clients
where we
set up perhaps two different landing
pages one with slightly different copy
maybe a second with forms designed in a
different way
or forms of less fields for people to
complete because we all know people hate
inquiry forms like an essay where you've
got a name second name
surname job title job description how
long have you been this company for
basically a life story
and then you finally get to the submit
button and you've fallen asleep by the
time you fill out the demo
and see yeah all those kind of things
makes
makes perfect sense are there any um any
best practices talking about landing
pages and converting
are from your experience brian perhaps
what's worked well for you or your
customers
are there any best practices for landing
pages in terms of how we position them
how we should position our forms or
um kind of social proof or anything like
that yeah
so you hit on it the more forms you add
i'm sorry the more form fields you add
to a form and the
more personal the information you're
requesting the lower your conversion
rate is going to be
so if you're getting too many um
form feels you know it's too much it's
doing too well
then you add fields to qualify visitors
in or out if you ask a qualifying
question
business size or title um those people
that aren't really serious may fall off
and that would be a good thing in that
case
most of us don't have that problem we'll
take all the leads that we can get so
start with the minimum that you can have
any questions that you can ask
during the demo or during the sales con
consultation
it goes off the form get rid of those
captcha
forms you do not want your prospects
carrying the burden of your spam problem
so
you'll see a significant drop in capture
forms even if it's just the very simple
recaptcha google one click
check box because if they do anything
fishy then they
have to be taken through a process that
can be quite onerous so
you you don't need any recaptcha on
there and on your landing pages
consider a few things to add so
should you add some social proof do you
have some testimonials that you can add
to that page
to reinforce that other people have had
success
um
is your value proposition laid out and
you know on a page where you're selling
a demo you want to talk about the value
of the demo
you don't really have to spend all your
time talking about how great your
company or great product or greater
service is
but you want to build that value
proposition out
do you have risk reversal so are you
ensuring that
that person that if they give you a name
and email address that you're not going
to be selling it to everybody and
they're going to get a bunch of calls
and emails from strangers um so um
you know we respect your privacy links
your privacy policy
is just enough to make people think okay
these guys are are serious about
you know not driving me crazy um
balance that with the frequency of your
emails people locked out you'll
people opt out of the follow-up emails
that you use then
it's good to let them go because they're
kind of qualifying themselves out
so um you know these are some of the
things that you can
consider adding to a landing page to
make them feel more comfortable and more
confident
filling out that form and getting
through and having a conversation with
you
nice one so in terms of so we talked
about a little bit about ads a little
bit about seo talked a little bit about
using landing pages and best practices
to drive those all important leads
um from a analytical
or a measurement perspective brian is
that and there may not be a perfect
answer for this but how often should we
be tinkering things how often should we
be going into tools like google
analytics for example that's going to
give us all that juicy data
on how people are interacting with a
website how people are converting
uh the traffic sources whether they come
through a paid ad where they come from
seo or linkedin or facebook
the attribution source how often should
we be looking into these data sources
and then tinkering with a landing pages
example so if we're getting a nice
influx of leads should we just leave it
as it is
for years and years later and just hope
for the best or should we be constantly
taking tweaking with it each day or
is there a kind of sweet spot so as the
manager of a business
your job is to understand your customers
and that's really what we're talking
about here
so when we make a change to a landing
page and then we go and look at the
difference
that makes we're learning something we
change a headline for instance
uh let's say well we'll try something a
little bit more emotional but a little
bit less functional
and we see an increase in leads that's
telling some us something about our
visitors that they are looking for
that we call these sorts of buyers
humanist
and they're interested in the who i'm
going to do business with
if you're in a services business for
instance um
let's say you're a plumber we find
success
if you show instead of a stock photo
show a picture of your truck if it's
been wrapped show a picture of your
employees with a clean uniform
even with the booties on their on their
on their
shoes you're sending signals that
showing them what their experience is
going to be like
so a change like that that works tells
you something about your audience that
they
they prize that sort of thing so you can
begin to say well how can i do more of
this
should i take those sorts of images out
and do some ads around those
so that people coming no they're going
to have a professional experience when
we come to fix their faucet or
remodel that bathroom
if you are um
a b testing is a uh you mentioned is
the best data that you can collect
because it controls for changes in the
market
um it's a little bit more sophisticated
but any business owner is going to have
to be able to
use the data to make decisions in their
business think about this if you're
offering something for a price like a
free steam clean for 99
is 89 better uh is there a drop if you
go
over 100 so you can really use these
landing pages to test
all sorts of aspects of your business
how you're bundling things
if you're running a a sas business site
as a service business
which features should you mention first
or or put the most emphasis on which
ones seem to be most important
so as you make these changes and then
you go into google analytics and you see
how these pages are performing
you're learning how to speak to your
customers
and how to attract those especially
those that are on the verge of buying
we say lower in the funnel um it is it
can be intimidating
to open google analytics
and read all the reports and suddenly
define
some value from them but if you go in
with a special question like
i wonder if this page is working better
this week than it was last week
please do that and that's a that's a
specific report that you'll go to and
find you'll get your information and
you'll get out
not quite as spooky now when you make a
change
um let it run for a while
so you need dozens or if you can
hundreds of conversions to tell you that
the before and after
is better or worse so i think you should
always be experimenting
but when you make a change let it run
long enough that you feel like you've
got enough conversions that this is not
just an
accident something didn't change the
market but in fact whatever you changed
on that page
did improve things yeah there's some
really great pointers and like you say
brian it's amazing
how just small things that you were
would think wouldn't do much whether
it's just changing a title
changing a pricing changing an image
like you said there from stock
photography to actual pictures of your
team
or people using the product rather than
just generic images
or changing layouts changing color
schemes changing the way call to actions
are read
just those minor things that you
wouldn't really think generally could do
much
can really have a huge impact on how
people actually engage
trust and then most importantly convert
or click through
take the action you want them to take
and generate those all important leads
so she has some
some really nice points um but to wrap
things up brian
um i know as as we know as many of us
know anyway a lot of um
visitors now are coming from a mobile as
opposed to
desktop so are there any things that we
need to think about in terms of
audiences coming from mobile versus
or even tablets versus traditional
desktop experiences
yeah so um there's a report in google
analytics you can go and look at it and
it will tell you
how many mobile visitors you have versus
how many desktop or
tablet visitors you have tablet visitors
are generally pretty small in the market
right now and the
desktop and tablet pages tend to look
about the same the mobile the small
screen mobile the phone
visitors are going to get a very
different experience most of us are on
what we call a
um i'm forgetting
the word the uh um
it's a it your website adjusts itself
for small screens
um oh responsive responsive is the word
i'm looking at
um so you want if you are
if you are doing more email most of
those visitors are going to come on
mobile
we test we check our email on mobile if
you're advertising in facebook
most of those visitors are coming on
mobile and so in general what you're
going to see is an increase in the
number of mobile visitors
and once you go past 50 percent visitors
and i suspect most of you already have
close to or more than 50 percent of your
visitors coming on mobile
um you need to stop looking at the
desktop site and and
deciding how you want to change things
um
google chrome makes it very easy for you
to see what your website looks like on a
mobile desktop
i'm in a mobile device and that is the
page that you want to be looking at
and there are different things that you
put on a mobile
site you want some sort of a sticky
element at the top at the bottom
that reiterates something important
often call to action
a phone number that they can click to
call through
you the way things stack the amount of
text that you're using
eliminating big images that are just
there to make the
site look pretty slows down the load
time on mobile and
people most people on mobile are on a
low end connection
far away from a tower whether it's 4g or
5g they aren't connected as fast as on
wi-fi
um and so start there start looking at
at your site from the mobile side
because it's only going to keep growing
and um you you you don't want to get
stuck
nipping and tucking on the desktop side
when the real
important changes are going to happen on
the mobile side
good points really good points and yeah
i mean like you say it's
growing on that last point page feed so
important now because
i can speak from this from my own
perspective i'm very very impatient
so if i'm looking for a service on
google i open a website and it takes
more than a couple seconds two three
seconds to load
i'm just going to click off that site
and go to competitor um
and why should i wait really as a buyer
why should i have a
terrible experience on a website wait
seconds and seconds for a site's load
when i could just go to a competitor
that's going to give me an enjoyable
experience
give me the information i need fast so
if your website is slow
like you said brian it's really
affecting your conversions because it's
going to annoy people that go on
it they're more likely to click through
to a competitor because you've given
them a poor experience so
on that note um google pagespeed
insights is a really good free tool
where you can just head over to google
page speed insights and type in your
website url and they'll give you an
analysis
of how fast your website is on mobile
and pc
and they'll also give you some
actionable tips on what you can actually
do to improve it so that's a nice little
tool and there is others too
um that's just one that that we like to
use well you know when google's tracking
that
it's using that information to decide
whether or not you're worthy of getting
organic traffic
or if you're buying search ads it's
affecting the um
the quality score on your site so
improving your site speed and improving
conversion in general
is going to help your organic search
traffic and increase that
cool brian it's been an absolute
pleasure we've covered some real gems
really um in terms of
generating quality lead magnets speeding
up building up your email lists
utilizing
landing pages best practices for
analytics why we not
need not to be complacent with our
websites and our landing pages and why
we should be always be
monitoring analyzing and optimizing um
so really appreciate it brian thanks so
much for coming
on um what i do like to ask everyone
is if there is just one digital
marketing channel
that you could recommend to grow your
business what would be that digital
marketing channel brian
digital marketing channel to grow your
business i'm i'm gonna go all
in on uh email build that list
build that list and send frequent
helpful and promotional emails uh and
that will
basically charges your marketing battery
on the list and then allows you to get
the
energy out of that in additional sales
get on your man brian tell us a bit more
about how people can learn from you
how people can connect with you um your
business and anything you'd like to
promote sir
yeah so um we share everything that
we're learning
on conversionsciences.com we have a blog
there
uh you'll learn a little bit more about
us and how we work and
um you can actually sign up for a free
consultation we'll take a look at your
site
and review it and let you know what sort
of conversion optimization
strategy you should be using to grow
nice one brian thank you so much for
coming on really appreciate it dude
glad to be here and if you enjoyed the
show be sure to subscribe to sam's
business growth show
on your podcast channel of choice be it
spotify apple podcast youtube wherever
the heck you get your podcast from
we interview two business leaders each
and every week to provide you actual
tips to grow your business
and make best use of digital marketing
to increase your sales thanks for tuning
in